.Dd June 30, 2023
.Dt FREE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm free
.Nd Display amount of free and used memory in the system

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op options

.Sh DESCRIPTION
free displays the total amount of free and used physical and swap memory in the system, as well as active, inactive, and wired memory. The information is gathered by parsing the data from memory_pressure. The displayed columns are:

.Bl -tag -width indent
.It total
Total amount of installed memory.
.It used
Memory used, calculated differently depending on the platform, and designed for informational purposes only.
.It free
Memory not being used at all that is readily available; note that this doesn’t reflect the actual memory available (use available instead). total - used does not necessarily match free.
.It active
Memory currently in use or very recently used.
.It inactive
Memory that is marked as not used.
.It wired
Memory that is marked to always stay in RAM. It is never moved to disk. 
.It available
Memory that can be given instantly to processes without the system going into swap.
.El

.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl b, -bytes
Display the amount of memory in bytes.
.It Fl k, -kibi
Display the amount of memory in kibibytes. This is the default.
.It Fl m, -mebi
Display the amount of memory in mebibytes.
.It Fl g, -gibi
Display the amount of memory in gibibytes.
.It Fl t, -tebi
Display the amount of memory in tebibytes.
.It Fl p, -pebi
Display the amount of memory in pebibytes.
.It Fl e, -exbi
Display the amount of memory in exbibytes.
.It Fl -kilo
Display the amount of memory in kilobytes. Implies --si.
.It Fl -mega
Display the amount of memory in megabytes. Implies --si.
.It Fl -giga
Display the amount of memory in gigabytes. Implies --si.
.It Fl -tera
Display the amount of memory in terabytes. Implies --si.
.It Fl -peta
Display the amount of memory in petabytes. Implies --si.
.It Fl -exa
Display the amount of memory in exabytes. Implies --si.
.It Fl -yaml
Output the data as YAML.
.It Fl -json
Output the data as JSON.
.It Fl -si
Use kilo, mega, giga etc (power of 1000) instead of kibi, mebi, gibi (power of 1024).
.It Fl s, -seconds
Continuously display the result N seconds apart.
.It Fl c, -count
Display the result count times. Requires the -s option.
.It Fl t, -total
Display a line showing the column totals.
.It Fl h, -help
Print help.
.It Fl V, -version
Display version information.
.El

.Sh REPORTING BUGS
You can report bugs to <gdanko@gmail.com>.

.Sh AUTHOR
Written by Gary Danko.

.Sh SEE ALSO
ps(1), top(1), vm_stat(1)
